# Automated school substitution plan
#### Video Demo:  <URL https://youtu.be/zOwzu022knQ>
#### Description: When I was still in School we often had the problem, that the substitution plan had a big delay, because teacher had to make it and they do not work 24/7. As a result of that we often waked up too early or even went to school, just to get there the message, that the hour will be dropped. My final project "Automated school substitution plan" is a prototype which aims to show what a solution to the problem could look like. Teacher and Students can submit their sick note online. If a teacher is sick, there will be an automated substitution.  The automated substitution plan follows 3 rules, if it is the first or sixth hour, it return lehrerID=0, what means the hours will be dropped. If not it looks if there is a teacher with the same subject available, if so, the teacher will hold the hour, if not, it will be dropped. Under register.html the administration can register students and teachers and gets their ID back under registered.html, which they need to login togheter with the password. The registration side is only for the administration which is why you can only reach it over the url /register and not over some navigation from the main page. Old teachers and students need to be removed in the consol via SQL requests, there is no GUI designed for that. The same is true for creating and deleting school classes. Under home.html you have to choose if you are a teacher or a student, then you get to student_login.html or teacher_login.html, where you can login with your ID and password. Once you are logged in, you can see your individual substitution plan and under student_vertretungsplan.html or teacher_vertretungsplan.html you can submit a sick note under student_ill.html or teacher_ill.html. By pressing the "Log Out" Button you can securily log out. The app.py file does all the back end stuff, for example generating the individual substitution plan or log the user in. The individual substitution plan is an other key element of my idea, the substitution plan in my old school always showed everybody everything, which was very annoying, because you often became messages of a substitution which was not for your. So in my project you only see the substitutions which affect you what saves a lot of time. In vertretungsplan.db there are the needed databases for students, classes, teachers and substitution plan. The passwords are only stored as hashes, which makes it more secure. The layout.html file gives all the pages a nice layout. If you are not logged in it does not show the navigation symbols for your sick note and substitution plan. helpers.py has the function which checks if the user is logged in. In styles.css is all CSS styling. Note: The automated substitution plan is only a prototype, so it only works for mondays and also there is no feature to automatically remove a substitution after a certain time. There could also be nicer styling, but I am very untalented and unmotivated when it comes to designing and art.